Initial ideas on a process. Ripped shamelessly from the Rust process. (#2)
amethyst/rfcs: README.md

requests may be re-opened when the time is right. We don't have any formal
process for that, you should ask members of the relevant sub-team.

Usually an RFC pull request marked as "postponed" has already passed an
informal first round of evaluation, namely the round of "do we think we would
ever possibly consider making this change, as outlined in the RFC pull request,
or some semi-obvious variation of it." (When the answer to the latter question
is "no", then the appropriate response is to close the RFC, not postpone it.)

### Help this is all too informal!
[Help this is all too informal!]: #help-this-is-all-too-informal

The process is intended to be as lightweight as reasonable for the present
circumstances. As usual, we are trying to let the process be driven by
consensus and community norms, not impose more structure than necessary.

[developer discussion forum]: Worth setting up Discourse for this? It can be bridged to Discord
[RFC issue tracker]: https://github.com/amethyst/rfcs/issues
[RFC repository]: http://github.com/amethyst/rfcs
[sub-team]: We need a link to a list of our subteams here

## License
[License]: #license

> All repositories under the amethyst/ organization are Apache 2.0 or MIT licensed.

Reviewer: amethyst/website is CC BY SA

Author: Thanks, fixed.

# Amethyst RFCs - [Active RFC List TBD]

[Amethyst RFCs]:

Many changes, including bug fixes and documentation improvements can be
implemented and reviewed via the normal GitHub pull request workflow.

Some changes though are "substantial", and we ask that these be put through a
bit of a design process and produce a consensus among the Amethyst community and
the [sub-team]s.

The "RFC" (Request for Comments) process is intended to provide a consistent
and controlled path for new features to enter the engine and associated
libraries, so that all stakeholders can be confident about the direction in which
the engine is evolving.

## Table of Contents
[Table of Contents]: #table-of-contents

>   - [Opening] Should we put a link to the Discord server here?

Reviewer 2: hmm yes

Author: I can, if someone can give me a perma-link invite thingy

  - [Table of Contents]
  - [When you need to follow this process]
  - [Before creating an RFC]
  - [What the process is]
  - [The RFC life-cycle]
  - [Reviewing RFCs]
  - [Implementing an RFC]
  - [RFC Postponement]

>   - [Help this is all too informal!]

Reviewer 2: isn't informal the opposite of formal? I'm not sure if I understand the meaning of this line.

Author: Yes, it is the opposite of formal. Compared to some RFC processes, this one is very simple. I believe that section was targeted at people expecting something more formal and less driven by community consensus.

  - [License]

## When you need to follow this process
[When you need to follow this process]: #when-you-need-to-follow-this-process

You need to follow this process if you intend to make "substantial" changes to
Amethyst, its component crates, or the RFC process itself. The definition of substantial
is somewhat fluid, and to an extent set by the community. Some examples might include:

  - A change to a different crate used for physics calculations
  - Changes to how the editor communicates with the engine
  - Significant protocol changes to the networking library
  - Anything that has the potential to produce a substantial negative impact on users

Some changes do not require an RFC:

  - Rephrasing, reorganizing, refactoring, or otherwise "changing shape does
    not change meaning".
  - Additions that strictly improve objective, numerical quality criteria
    (warning removal, speedup, better platform coverage, more parallelism, trap
    more errors, etc.)
  - Additions only likely to be _noticed by_ other developers-of-amethyst,
    invisible to users-of-amethyst.
  - More tests and benchmarks

> 

Reviewer 2: Could you add "very minor breaking changes"?

Author: If you can define "very minor" for all potential users of Amethyst. Breaking changes, even minor ones, are usually considered an entirely different beast and require much more scrutiny. @amethyst/core @magnonellie @TimonPost @azriel91 thoughts?

Author: Also, what is minor to one group of users may be a huge deal to another

Author: @jojolepro any more thoughts on this?

Reviewer 3: I think we cannot make formal specification of breakage except conformance to semver. These issues need to be dealt with individually, and I think we shouldn't add anything like that currently.

This might make sense for individual pieces (think of a protocol specification, something like that) though.

Reviewer 4: The line has disappeared, but that's a good thing. oh it's moved to line 192. Sounds okay to me

Reviewer 5: I don't think we should include the minor breaking changes exception as it's always good to have a log of what's happening and the discussion around it. There's nothing preventing you from making just a very small RFC. That said, as we still are in pre 1.0 state, it might be difficult to keep up with it in the long run, but I think that's gonna evolve pretty organically if it ends up being the case.

Author: Calling this resolved, then.

### Sub-team specific guidelines
[Sub-team specific guidelines]: #sub-team-specific-guidelines

For more details on when an RFC is required for the following areas, please see
the Amethyst community's [sub-team] specific guidelines for:

  - [networking changes](net_changes.md),
  - [renderer changes](rend_changes.md),
  - [engine changes](eng_changes.md),
  - [web changes](web_changes.md).

## Before creating an RFC
[Before creating an RFC]: #before-creating-an-rfc

A hastily-proposed RFC can hurt its chances of acceptance. Low quality
proposals, proposals for previously-rejected features, or those that don't fit
into the near-term roadmap, may be quickly rejected, which can be demotivating
for the unprepared contributor. Laying some groundwork ahead of the RFC can
make the process smoother.

Although there is no single way to prepare for submitting an RFC, it is
generally a good idea to pursue feedback from other project developers
beforehand, to ascertain that the RFC may be desirable; having a consistent
impact on the project requires concerted effort toward consensus-building.

The most common preparations for writing and submitting an RFC include talking

> the idea over on the Discord channel, specifically with the applicable sub-team.

Reviewer 2: Can you add a link to the discord channel on [Discord channel]?

Author: I can, if someone can give me a perma-link invite thingy

Reviewer 3: https://discord.gg/dqe9UYE

Author: thanks

      and major tradeoffs/points of disagreement.
    - Before actually entering FCP, *all* members of the subteam must sign off;
    this is often the point at which many subteam members first review the RFC
    in full depth.
  - The FCP lasts ten calendar days, so that it is open for at least 5 business
    days. It is also advertised widely,
    e.g. in [This Week in Amethyst](https://amethyst.rs/). This way all
    stakeholders have a chance to lodge any final objections before a decision
    is reached.
  - In most cases, the FCP period is quiet, and the RFC is either merged or
    closed. However, sometimes substantial new arguments or ideas are raised,
    the FCP is canceled, and the RFC goes back into development mode.

## The RFC life-cycle
[The RFC life-cycle]: #the-rfc-life-cycle

Once an RFC becomes "active" then authors may implement it and submit the
feature as a pull request to the Amethyst repo. Being "active" is not a rubber
stamp, and in particular still does not mean the feature will ultimately be
merged; it does mean that in principle all the major stakeholders have agreed
to the feature and are amenable to merging it.

> Furthermore, the fact that a given RFC has been accepted and is "active"

Reviewer 3: Can we change the term of an active RFC? I find it confusing, it should be "approved, but unimplemented".

Author: I changed it to approved.

implies nothing about what priority is assigned to its implementation, nor does
it imply anything about whether an Amethyst developer has been assigned the task of
implementing the feature. While it is not *necessary* that the author of the
RFC also write the implementation, it is by far the most effective way to see
an RFC through to completion: authors should not expect that other project
developers will take on responsibility for implementing their accepted feature.

> Modifications to "active" RFCs can be done in follow-up pull requests. We

Reviewer 3: In order for PRs to be merged which don't follow the RFC design, a new RFC needs to be made that changes the old document. I'd also suggest creating a dummy document that just says "RFC #321 changed RFC #279".

Reviewer 3: (probably with better wording)

strive to write each RFC in a manner that it will reflect the final design of
the feature; but the nature of the process means that we cannot expect every
merged RFC to actually reflect what the end result will be at the time of the
next major release.

> In general, once accepted, RFCs should not be substantially changed. Only very

Reviewer 3: Can we note somewhere that, for that purpose, RFCs should try to specify things as close as possible? It might seem a little much work in the beginning, but it's extremely useful since we can just use this as specification afterwards.

minor changes should be submitted as amendments. More substantial changes
should be new RFCs, with a note added to the original RFC. Exactly what counts
as a "very minor change" is up to the sub-team to decide; check
[Sub-team specific guidelines] for more details.

## Reviewing RFCs
[Reviewing RFCs]: #reviewing-rfcs

> While the RFC pull request is up, the sub-team may schedule meetings with the

Reviewer 3: That's actually contradictory to our org policy, which describes that the core team approves RFCs. Right now the sub-teams are a bit small to do this, not sure how we want to handle it. I think the sub-teams deserve to have special weight, but I'm not sure how to declare that formally.

Author: Can you share a link to the org policy, as well as a description of the responsibilities of the Core Team?

Author: or anyone on the @amethyst/core presumably that can provide those?

Reviewer 5: If that is an org policy, I do think it deserves to scrapped since it was made with the old structure in mind. I assume @torkleyy is talking about some things mentioned in [this document](https://github.com/amethyst/amethyst/blob/master/docs/CONTRIBUTING.md) but I honestly feel like the sub teams take priority here.

Author: Let's leave it like this, and we'll handle it on a case-by-case basis until the sub-teams are large enough

case a summary from the meeting will be posted back to the RFC pull request.

A sub-team makes final decisions about RFCs after the benefits and drawbacks
are well understood. These decisions can be made at any time, but the sub-team
will regularly issue decisions. When a decision is made, the RFC pull request
will either be merged or closed. In either case, if the reasoning is not clear
from the discussion in thread, the sub-team will add a comment describing the
rationale for the decision.

## Implementing an RFC
[Implementing an RFC]: #implementing-an-rfc

Some accepted RFCs represent vital features that need to be implemented right
away. Other accepted RFCs can represent features that can wait until some
arbitrary developer feels like doing the work. Every accepted RFC has an
associated issue tracking its implementation in the Amethyst repository; thus that
associated issue can be assigned a priority via the triage process that the
team uses for all issues in the Amethyst repository.

The author of an RFC is not obligated to implement it. Of course, the RFC
author (like any other developer) is welcome to post an implementation for

> review after the RFC has been accepted.

Reviewer 3: Should we include the following?

In some cases, at least a proof of concept can be helpful to demonstrate the described change / feature.

Author: Sure, though PoC means different things to different people. I might describe it as supporting materials.

> # Amethyst RFCs - [Active RFC List TBD]

Reviewer 3: We should just link to the open PRs, but I don't think that needs to go into the headline.

Author: Ok, will leave the link out until I have the bot set up

Reviewer 3: Update: Provide three links:

* discussing RFCs (should link to all open PRs here)
* accepted RFCs (can link to the file tree)
* RFCs waiting for implementation (issues with `label="RFC accepted" -label="status: working"`

Author: OK, I've added these notes in. Actual links will have to wait until I have the bot running.

  - [License]

## When you need to follow this process
[When you need to follow this process]: #when-you-need-to-follow-this-process

You need to follow this process if you intend to make "substantial" changes to
Amethyst, its component crates, or the RFC process itself. The definition of substantial
is somewhat fluid, and to an extent set by the community. Some examples might include:

  - A change to a different crate used for physics calculations
  - Changes to how the editor communicates with the engine
  - Significant protocol changes to the networking library
  - Anything that has the potential to produce a substantial negative impact on users

Some changes do not require an RFC:

  - Rephrasing, reorganizing, refactoring, or otherwise "changing shape does
    not change meaning".
  - Additions that strictly improve objective, numerical quality criteria
    (warning removal, speedup, better platform coverage, more parallelism, trap
    more errors, etc.)
  - Additions only likely to be _noticed by_ other developers-of-amethyst,
    invisible to users-of-amethyst.
  - More tests and benchmarks

If you submit a pull request to implement a new feature without going through

> the RFC process, it may be closed with a polite request to submit an RFC first.

Reviewer 3: Do we want to be that strict? I can imagine features that

1) don't require much to be changed
2) don't have reasonable alternatives

e.g. new camera component, new light types, or generally adding a variant of something that already exists

Reviewer 3: What happens if we're undecided whether an RFC is required or not?

Reviewer: If there is debate, then there should be an RFC. If it was worth it, then good, if it wasn't, the RFC will be merged quickly.

Reviewer 6: Yup, generally if an issue goes into the stalled period then it should open an RFC.

Reviewer 6: We could even have the RFC bot open issue automatically if its in the stalled period for 2 weeks maybe 😄

Author: Do we have consensus on stalled issues opening an RFC? @torkleyy @LucioFranco @Moxinilian

Reviewer 2: Hi! I don't think 2 week is enough. Maybe someone is working on code and the rfc was ready to be implemented. In which case, it could easily be stalled for 2+ months before anything new is written on it.

As for pull requests being forced to open an rfc, I would impose that only on very very controversial changes. Like when we added the optionnal sdl dependency for controller support.

Reviewer 3: I'm not sure, I don't think stalled issues are automatically an RFC. RFCs can be seen as decisions that need to be made, and issues get stale for many reasons other than missing decisions.

Author: So it sounds like the general consensus is that: A stale issue != an RFC.

I'll change this part. We might want to consider auto-closing issues that aren't at least getting regular comments/activity. Particularly if we can link an issue to a branch and see if the branch is active

Author: How about something like:

```
If you submit a pull request that ends up being controversial and requires nore
discussion, you may be asked to submit an RFC.
```

Reviewer 3: That's definitely a good notice, although not the only requirement for an RFC. Big PRs should create an RFC beforehand to avoid doing unnecessary work or merging something even though it's not what we'd like to have. It's kind of hard to define what needs an RFC.. I don't think it should be controversial stuff only, since when you call it controversial, it means there needs to be some reviewer who already has other ideas, which might not be the case without an RFC process. At the same time we should not make too much an RFC process since it creates some overhead..

Author: This process is not carved onto adamantium tablets by a Wakandan Vibranium laser. =) It can be changed if it needs to be.

This section of the doc, I think, is intended to handle the case of what seems to be a minor feature suddenly turning out to be much bigger or more complex than anyone anticipated. We could say:

```
If you submit a PR that sparks a great deal of discussion or push-back from the community, you may be asked to submit it as a PR. Sometimes what appears to be a minor change can have a far-reaching impact.
```

    feedback from the larger community, and the author should be prepared to
    revise it in response.
  - Each pull request will be labeled with the most relevant [sub-team], which
    will lead to its being triaged by that team in a future meeting and assigned
    to a member of the subteam.
  - Build consensus and integrate feedback. RFCs that have broad support are
    much more likely to make progress than those that don't receive any
    comments. Feel free to reach out to the RFC assignee in particular to get
    help identifying stakeholders and obstacles.
  - The sub-team will discuss the RFC pull request, as much as possible in the
    comment thread of the pull request itself. Offline discussion will be
    summarized on the pull request comment thread.
  - RFCs rarely go through this process unchanged, especially as alternatives
    and drawbacks are shown. You can make edits, big and small, to the RFC to
    clarify or change the design, but make changes as new commits to the pull
    request, and leave a comment on the pull request explaining your changes.
    *Specifically, do not squash or rebase commits after they are visible on the
    pull request.*

>   - At some point, a member of the subteam will propose a "motion for final

Reviewer 3: We should go over this again and either make our bot ready or do it manually for now.

Reviewer 3: Should this not also go into the RFC guidelines?

Author: I'll just do the bot. Manually is going to be a tech debt hole we'll never get out of.

Reviewer 6: @fhaynes are you planning on forking rfcbot?

Author: @LucioFranco yeah

Reviewer 6: @fhaynes cool, I think we can make a fork within the amethyst org of it. I took a look at it and it seems that it should be pretty easy to fork. Most of the team stuff is set up in a config file anyways.

Author: I forked it to here: https://github.com/amethyst/rfcbot-rs

We'll need to make a few changes, but nothing major. And host it somewhere, of course.

    members use their best judgment in taking this step, and the FCP itself
    ensures there is ample time and notification for stakeholders to push back
    if it is made prematurely.
    - For RFCs with lengthy discussion, the motion to FCP is usually preceded by
      a *summary comment* trying to lay out the current state of the discussion
      and major tradeoffs/points of disagreement.
    - Before actually entering FCP, *all* members of the subteam must sign off;
    this is often the point at which many subteam members first review the RFC
    in full depth.
  - The FCP lasts ten calendar days, so that it is open for at least 5 business
    days. It is also advertised widely,
    e.g. in [This Week in Amethyst](https://amethyst.rs/). This way all
    stakeholders have a chance to lodge any final objections before a decision
    is reached.
  - In most cases, the FCP period is quiet, and the RFC is either merged or
    closed. However, sometimes substantial new arguments or ideas are raised,
    the FCP is canceled, and the RFC goes back into development mode.

## The RFC life-cycle
[The RFC life-cycle]: #the-rfc-life-cycle

> Once an RFC becomes "active" then authors may implement it and submit the

Reviewer 3: Concept of tracking issues? I think having an issue in the respective repo with `RFC: accepted` is sufficient.

Reviewer 3: Ah, it's below

Reviewer 3: still, I'd like to bring in the tag

Author: @torkleyy You mean a tracking issue with the tag `RFC: Accepted`?

Reviewer 3: Yes, exactly :+1:

case a summary from the meeting will be posted back to the RFC pull request.

A sub-team makes final decisions about RFCs after the benefits and drawbacks
are well understood. These decisions can be made at any time, but the sub-team
will regularly issue decisions. When a decision is made, the RFC pull request
will either be merged or closed. In either case, if the reasoning is not clear
from the discussion in thread, the sub-team will add a comment describing the
rationale for the decision.

## Implementing an RFC
[Implementing an RFC]: #implementing-an-rfc

Some accepted RFCs represent vital features that need to be implemented right
away. Other accepted RFCs can represent features that can wait until some
arbitrary developer feels like doing the work. Every accepted RFC has an
associated issue tracking its implementation in the Amethyst repository; thus that
associated issue can be assigned a priority via the triage process that the
team uses for all issues in the Amethyst repository.

The author of an RFC is not obligated to implement it. Of course, the RFC
author (like any other developer) is welcome to post an implementation for
review after the RFC has been accepted.

> If you are interested in working on the implementation for an "active" RFC, but

Reviewer 3: interested

Author: Pardon? It says interested...

Reviewer 3: I don't know what I read here..

requests may be re-opened when the time is right. We don't have any formal
process for that, you should ask members of the relevant sub-team.

Usually an RFC pull request marked as "postponed" has already passed an
informal first round of evaluation, namely the round of "do we think we would
ever possibly consider making this change, as outlined in the RFC pull request,
or some semi-obvious variation of it." (When the answer to the latter question
is "no", then the appropriate response is to close the RFC, not postpone it.)

### Help this is all too informal!
[Help this is all too informal!]: #help-this-is-all-too-informal

The process is intended to be as lightweight as reasonable for the present
circumstances. As usual, we are trying to let the process be driven by
consensus and community norms, not impose more structure than necessary.

[developer discussion forum]: Worth setting up Discourse for this? It can be bridged to Discord
[RFC issue tracker]: https://github.com/amethyst/rfcs/issues
[RFC repository]: http://github.com/amethyst/rfcs
[sub-team]: We need a link to a list of our subteams here

## License
[License]: #license

> This repository is currently in the process of being licensed under either of

Reviewer 3: "is licensed under"

# Amethyst RFCs - [Active RFC List TBD]

[Amethyst RFCs]:

Many changes, including bug fixes and documentation improvements can be
implemented and reviewed via the normal GitHub pull request workflow.

Some changes though are "substantial", and we ask that these be put through a

> bit of a design process and produce a consensus among the Rust community and

Reviewer: "the Rust community" probably is an oversight here

the [sub-team]s.

The "RFC" (Request for Comments) process is intended to provide a consistent
and controlled path for new features to enter the engine and associated
libraries, so that all stakeholders can be confident about the direction in which
the engine is evolving.

## Table of Contents
[Table of Contents]: #table-of-contents

>   - [Opening] Discord Link Here?

Reviewer: What?

Author: Do we want to put an invite link to the Discord server here?

  - [Table of Contents]
  - [When you need to follow this process]
  - [Before creating an RFC]
  - [What the process is]
  - [The RFC life-cycle]
  - [Reviewing RFCs]
  - [Implementing an RFC]
  - [RFC Postponement]
  - [Help this is all too informal!]
  - [License]

## When you need to follow this process
[When you need to follow this process]: #when-you-need-to-follow-this-process

You need to follow this process if you intend to make "substantial" changes to
Amethyst, its component crates, or the RFC process itself. The definition of substantial
is somewhat fluid, and to an extent set by the community. Some examples might include:

  - A change to a different crate used for physics calculations

>   - Changes to how the editor communications with the engine

Reviewer: "communicates"

away. Other accepted RFCs can represent features that can wait until some
arbitrary developer feels like doing the work. Every accepted RFC has an
associated issue tracking its implementation in the Rust repository; thus that
associated issue can be assigned a priority via the triage process that the
team uses for all issues in the Rust repository.

The author of an RFC is not obligated to implement it. Of course, the RFC
author (like any other developer) is welcome to post an implementation for
review after the RFC has been accepted.

If you are interested in working on the implementation for an "active" RFC, but
cannot determine if someone else is already working on it, feel free to ask
(e.g. by leaving a comment on the associated issue).

## RFC Postponement
[RFC Postponement]: #rfc-postponement

Some RFC pull requests are tagged with the "postponed" label when they are
closed (as part of the rejection process). An RFC closed with "postponed" is
marked as such because we want neither to think about evaluating the proposal
nor about implementing the described feature until some time in the future, and
we believe that we can afford to wait until then to do so. Historically,

> "postponed" was used to postpone features until after 1.0. Postponed pull

Reviewer: We don't have an history for now.

ever possibly consider making this change, as outlined in the RFC pull request,
or some semi-obvious variation of it." (When the answer to the latter question
is "no", then the appropriate response is to close the RFC, not postpone it.)

### Help this is all too informal!
[Help this is all too informal!]: #help-this-is-all-too-informal

The process is intended to be as lightweight as reasonable for the present
circumstances. As usual, we are trying to let the process be driven by
consensus and community norms, not impose more structure than necessary.

[developer discussion forum]: Worth setting up Discourse for this? It can be bridged to Discord
[RFC issue tracker]: https://github.com/amethyst/rfcs/issues
[RFC repository]: http://github.com/amethyst/rfcs
[sub-team]: We need a link to a list of our subteams here

## License
[License]: #license

This repository is currently in the process of being licensed under either of

* Apache License, Version 2.0, ([LICENSE-APACHE](LICENSE-APACHE) or http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)
* MIT license ([LICENSE-MIT](LICENSE-MIT) or http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

> at your option. Some parts of the repository are already licensed according to those terms. For more see [RFC 2044](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2044) and its [tracking issue](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/43461).

Reviewer: We can probably already claim that everything is Apache 2.0/MIT.

# Amethyst RFCs

> [Amethyst RFCs]:

Reviewer 4: missing an ID: `#amethyst-rfcs`

Author: Fixed

## Opening
[Opening]: #opening

Many changes, including bug fixes and documentation improvements can be
implemented and reviewed via the normal GitHub pull request workflow.

Some changes though are "substantial", and we ask that these be put through a
bit of a design process and produce a consensus among the Amethyst community and
the [sub-team]s.

> The "RFC" (Request for Comments) process is intended to provide a consistent

Reviewer 4: nit: `"Request for Comments" (RFC)`

### Sub-team specific guidelines
[Sub-team specific guidelines]: #sub-team-specific-guidelines

For more details on when an RFC is required for the following areas, please see 
the Amethyst community's [sub-team] specific guidelines for:

  - [networking changes](net_changes.md),
  - [renderer changes](rend_changes.md),
  - [engine changes](eng_changes.md),
  - [web changes](web_changes.md).

## Before creating an RFC
[Before creating an RFC]: #before-creating-an-rfc

A hastily-proposed RFC can hurt its chances of acceptance. Low quality
proposals, proposals for previously-rejected features, or those that don't fit
into the near-term roadmap, may be quickly rejected, which can be demotivating
for the unprepared contributor. Laying some groundwork ahead of the RFC can
make the process smoother.

Although there is no single way to prepare for submitting an RFC, it is
generally a good idea to pursue feedback from other project developers
beforehand, to ascertain that the RFC may be desirable; having a consistent
impact on the project requires concerted effort toward consensus-building.

The most common preparations for writing and submitting an RFC include talking

> the idea over on the [Discord channel](https://discord.gg/dqe9UYE), specifically with the applicable sub-team.

Reviewer 4: nit: there's a tail on this line (most other lines fir within 80 chars, though there is at least one line with 81 chars 😛)

Author: Fixed. And I am withholding my rant about how lines should be 120, not 80, chars wide.

# Amethyst RFCs

[Amethyst RFCs]:

> Note that this will be actual links once the bot is set up

Reviewer 5: Should we even mention this before the bot is done?

Author: Yes, or I'll forget

Reviewer 3: Hmm, at some point I commented that we should have three links here. I'm not sure where that comment is now, but... 😅 I think we can just add them now, independently ot the bot.

- discussing RFCs (should link to all open PRs here)
- accepted RFCs (can link to the file tree)

> - RFCs waiting for implementation (issues with label="RFC accepted" -label="status: working"

Reviewer 5: You seem to be missing a closing parenthesis here :wink:

Author: Fixed

## Opening
[Opening]: #opening

Many changes, including bug fixes and documentation improvements can be
implemented and reviewed via the normal GitHub pull request workflow.

Some changes though are "substantial", and we ask that these be put through a
bit of a design process and produce a consensus among the Amethyst community and
the [sub-team]s.

The "RFC" (Request for Comments) process is intended to provide a consistent
and controlled path for new features to enter the engine and associated
libraries, so that all stakeholders can be confident about the direction in which
the engine is evolving.

> You may join our Discord here: https://discord.gg/dqe9UYE

Reviewer 5: If we are launching the forums at the same time as this, I would like to see it linked here too.

Author: Done

- Significant protocol changes to the networking library
- Anything that has the potential to produce a substantial negative impact on users

Some changes do not require an RFC:

- Rephrasing, reorganizing, refactoring, or otherwise "changing shape does
  not change meaning".
- Additions that strictly improve objective, numerical quality criteria
  (warning removal, speedup, better platform coverage, more parallelism, trap
  more errors, etc.)
- Additions only likely to be _noticed by_ other developers-of-amethyst,
  invisible to users-of-amethyst.
- More tests and benchmarks

If you submit a pull request that ends up being generating a lot of discussion or
pushback, you may be asked to submit an RFC. What seems to be a minor change can
have unintended consequences other teams might see.

### Sub-team specific guidelines
[Sub-team specific guidelines]: #sub-team-specific-guidelines

For more details on when an RFC is required for the following areas, please see 
the Amethyst community's [sub-team] specific guidelines for:

- [networking changes](net_changes.md),
- [renderer changes](rend_changes.md),
- [engine changes](eng_changes.md),

> - [web changes](web_changes.md).

Reviewer 4: [Rendered version](https://github.com/amethyst/rfcs/blob/af284d935495a53c15034d409dc0965e2e1cb565/README.md#sub-team-specific-guidelines) isn't pretty enough, can go with:

```md
- [Networking changes](net_changes.md)
- [Renderer changes](rend_changes.md)
- [Engine changes](eng_changes.md)
- [Web changes](web_changes.md)
```

Author: Fixed

## Before creating an RFC
[Before creating an RFC]: #before-creating-an-rfc

A hastily-proposed RFC can hurt its chances of acceptance. Low quality
proposals, proposals for previously-rejected features, or those that don't fit
into the near-term roadmap, may be quickly rejected, which can be demotivating
for the unprepared contributor. Laying some groundwork ahead of the RFC can
make the process smoother.

Although there is no single way to prepare for submitting an RFC, it is
generally a good idea to pursue feedback from other project developers
beforehand, to ascertain that the RFC may be desirable; having a consistent
impact on the project requires concerted effort toward consensus-building.

The most common preparations for writing and submitting an RFC include talking
the idea over on the [Discord channel](https://discord.gg/dqe9UYE), specifically with the applicable sub-team.

As a rule of thumb, receiving encouraging feedback from long-standing project
developers, and particularly members of the relevant [sub-team] is a good

> indication that the RFC is worth pursuing.

Reviewer 5: I do think we should also add here in the end that you should never be afraid of attempting to bring up changes no matter how stupid it can be. I feel like just reading this may feel very discouraging, but we're usually pretty open and try to make sure that everyone's opinion is being taken into account.

Author: I'll reword this part

## What the process is
[What the process is]: #what-the-process-is

In short, to get a major feature added to Amethyst, one must first get the RFC
merged into the RFC repository as a markdown file. At that point the RFC is
approved and may be implemented with the goal of eventual inclusion into Amethyst.

- Fork the RFC repo [RFC repository]
- Copy `0000-template.md` to `text/0000-my-feature.md` (where "my-feature" is

>   descriptive. don't assign an RFC number yet).

Reviewer 5: I'm not good with English semantics but shouldn't there be a capital letter here?

Author: Yup

feature and are amenable to merging it.

Furthermore, the fact that a given RFC has been accepted and is approved
implies nothing about what priority is assigned to its implementation, nor does
it imply anything about whether an Amethyst developer has been assigned the task of
implementing the feature. While it is not *necessary* that the author of the
RFC also write the implementation, it is by far the most effective way to see
an RFC through to completion: authors should not expect that other project
developers will take on responsibility for implementing their accepted feature.

Modifications to approved RFCs can be done in follow-up pull requests. In
order for a PR that deviates from the RFC standard, a new RFC that follows
the accepted guidelines should be written and contain a link to the prior version.

We strive to write each RFC in a manner that it will reflect the final design of
the feature; but the nature of the process means that we cannot expect every
merged RFC to actually reflect what the end result will be at the time of the
next major release.

In general, once accepted, RFCs should not be substantially changed. They should

> be as detailed as possible so that only very minor changes are needed as ammendments.

Reviewer 4: typo: `ammendments -> amendments`

Author: Right you are

closed (as part of the rejection process). An RFC closed with "postponed" is
marked as such because we want neither to think about evaluating the proposal
nor about implementing the described feature until some time in the future, and
we believe that we can afford to wait until then to do so. Postponed pull
requests may be re-opened when the time is right. We don't have any formal
process for that, you should ask members of the relevant sub-team.

Usually an RFC pull request marked as "postponed" has already passed an
informal first round of evaluation, namely the round of "do we think we would
ever possibly consider making this change, as outlined in the RFC pull request,
or some semi-obvious variation of it." (When the answer to the latter question
is "no", then the appropriate response is to close the RFC, not postpone it.)

### Help this is all too informal!
[Help this is all too informal!]: #help-this-is-all-too-informal

The process is intended to be as lightweight as reasonable for the present
circumstances. As usual, we are trying to let the process be driven by
consensus and community norms, not impose more structure than necessary.

> [developer discussion forum]: Worth setting up Discourse for this? It can be bridged to Discord

Reviewer 4: The links [aren't rendered](https://github.com/amethyst/rfcs/blob/af284d935495a53c15034d409dc0965e2e1cb565/README.md#help-this-is-all-too-informal), this one seems superseded by `[Discourse Link](#discourse-discussion)` in `0000-template.md`

Should we use Discourse or reddit ([r/Amethyst](https://www.reddit.com/r/Amethyst/))? I like Discourse's interface, but that said I could get used to reddit

Reviewer 3: I think Discourse is much better suited for long discussions than Reddit.

Author: Yes, I would vote for discourse

[RFC issue tracker]: https://github.com/amethyst/rfcs/issues
[RFC repository]: http://github.com/amethyst/rfcs

> [sub-team]: We need a link to a list of our subteams here

Reviewer 5: These links should be fixed

Author: I removed the links except to Discourse until the bot is working

# Amethyst RFCs
[Amethyst RFCs]: #amethyst-rfcs

> - [Discussing RFCs](https://github.com/amethyst/rfcs/issues)

Reviewer 3: This should link to pulls.

Author: Fixed

> - [Accepted RFCs](https://github.com/amethyst/rfcs/tree/master/accepted)

Reviewer 3: All RFCs merged here are accepted, so I don't think we need an extra folder. I think we can just call that `rfcs/`. If you want to, we could group them (`engine`, `laminar`, `administrativa`).

> - [RFCs Awaiting Implementation](https://github.com/amethyst/rfcs/issues?utf8=✓&q=label%3A%22RFC%3A+Accepted%22+-label%3A%22Status%3A+Working%22+)

Reviewer 3: I'm a bit unsure here. I think it makes sense to have the issues in the repositories they need to be implemented in, but at the same time that makes it hard to link to them (unless we make a sub-list with the repos).

Author: I would link each sub-issue in the tracking issue, especially since they may across repo boundaries.

Reviewer 3: Okay, I like that.

## Opening
[Opening]: #opening

Many changes, including bug fixes and documentation improvements can be
implemented and reviewed via the normal GitHub pull request workflow.

Some changes though are "substantial", and we ask that these be put through a
bit of a design process and produce a consensus among the Amethyst community and
the [sub-team]s.

The "Request for Comments" (RFC) process is intended to provide a consistent
and controlled path for new features to enter the engine and associated
libraries, so that all stakeholders can be confident about the direction in which
the engine is evolving.

> You may join our Discord here: https://discord.gg/dqe9UYE and the Amethyst Community Forum here: https://community.amethyst-engine.org.

Reviewer 7: Shouldn't this be replaced with links place holders?

Author: You mean not show the full URL?

Reviewer 7: yea the user does not care about the discord url I suppose. I agree that forum could be a full link.

## Table of Contents
[Table of Contents]: #table-of-contents

- [Opening]
- [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
- [When you need to follow this process](#when-you-need-to-follow-this-process)
  - [Sub-team Specific Guidelines](#sub-team-specific-guidelines)
- [Before creating an RFC](#before-creating-an-rfc)
- [What the process is](#what-the-process-is)
- [Tracking Issues](#tracking-issues)
  - [Labels and Tags](#labels-tags)
- [The RFC life-cycle](#the-rfc-life-cycle)
  - [Reviewing RFCs](#reviewing-rfcs)
  - [Implementing an RFC](#implementing-an-rfc)
  - [RFC Postponement](#rfc-postponement)
- [Help this is all too informal!](#help-this-is-all-too-informal)
- [License](#license)

## When you need to follow this process
[When you need to follow this process]: #when-you-need-to-follow-this-process

> You need to follow this process if you intend to make "substantial" changes to

Reviewer 7: "Substantial" should be single quoted since it is not a quote from some person but you want to bring the reader its focus on 'substantial'

Author: Fixed

Amethyst, its component crates, or the RFC process itself. The definition of substantial
is somewhat fluid, and to an extent set by the community. Some examples might include:

- A change to a different crate used for physics calculations
- Changes to how the editor communicates with the engine
- Significant protocol changes to the networking library

> - Anything that has the potential to produce a substantial negative impact on users

Reviewer 8: I don't really care for this wording, as it implies change is bad.  I'd reword to "produce a substantial workload for users upgrading their Amethyst versions."

Reviewer 4: Initially I wrote a comment on this which I retracted:

> Anything that comes with a significant cost to users.
>
> It's not often a change is simply "negative", the _negative_ is usually an accompanying cost to something positive / valuable, and usually we want to balance how much cost we impose on maintainers / users of amethyst, as well as game consumers.

But it's somewhat long winded

Reviewer 8: Do you feel the same way about my suggested comment?

Author: How about "..has the potential to have a substantial impact on users" @Xaeroxe @azriel91

Reviewer 4: yeap that works

Reviewer 8: Sounds good

Author: Done

Some changes do not require an RFC:

- Rephrasing, reorganizing, refactoring, or otherwise "changing shape does
  not change meaning".
- Additions that strictly improve objective, numerical quality criteria
  (warning removal, speedup, better platform coverage, more parallelism, trap
  more errors, etc.)
- Additions only likely to be _noticed by_ other developers-of-amethyst,
  invisible to users-of-amethyst.

> - More tests and benchmarks

Reviewer 7: . missing

Author: I see:
<img width="393" alt="screen shot 2018-11-09 at 12 03 31 pm" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4388373/48285460-86b21a80-e417-11e8-8638-ba3b3903b7b9.png">

> - More tests and benchmarks

Reviewer 8: I might also add "convenience functions" here for simple quality of life improvements that don't substantially alter the API, just make it easier to use.

Author: "that do not break backwards compatibility" I would assume should be in there?

Reviewer 8: Yup

Author: Done

  or postpone).
  - This step is taken when enough of the tradeoffs have been discussed that
  the subteam is in a position to make a decision. That does not require
  consensus amongst all participants in the RFC thread (which is usually
  impossible). However, the argument supporting the disposition on the RFC
  needs to have already been clearly articulated, and there should not be a
  strong consensus *against* that position outside of the subteam. Subteam
  members use their best judgment in taking this step, and the FCP itself
  ensures there is ample time and notification for stakeholders to push back
  if it is made prematurely.
  - For RFCs with lengthy discussion, the motion to FCP is usually preceded by
    a *summary comment* trying to lay out the current state of the discussion
    and major tradeoffs/points of disagreement.
  - Before actually entering FCP, *all* members of the subteam must sign off;
  this is often the point at which many subteam members first review the RFC
  in full depth.
- The FCP lasts ten calendar days, so that it is open for at least 5 business
  days. It is also advertised widely,

>   e.g. in [This Week in Amethyst](https://amethyst.rs/). This way all

Reviewer 7: Should be: https://www.amethyst.rs/blog/

Author: Fixed

implementing the feature. While it is not *necessary* that the author of the
RFC also write the implementation, it is by far the most effective way to see
an RFC through to completion: authors should not expect that other project
developers will take on responsibility for implementing their accepted feature.

Modifications to approved RFCs can be done in follow-up pull requests. In
order for a PR that deviates from the RFC standard, a new RFC that follows
the accepted guidelines should be written and contain a link to the prior version.

We strive to write each RFC in a manner that it will reflect the final design of
the feature; but the nature of the process means that we cannot expect every
merged RFC to actually reflect what the end result will be at the time of the
next major release.

In general, once accepted, RFCs should not be substantially changed. They should
be as detailed as possible so that only very minor changes are needed as amendments.
More substantial changes should be new RFCs, with a note added to the original RFC.
Exactly what counts as a "very minor change" is up to the sub-team to decide; check

> [Sub-team specific guidelines] for more details.

Reviewer 7: Don't get why this needs to be in [ ]

Author: To link to the anchor for that section.

(e.g. by leaving a comment on the associated issue).

Once an RFC has been implemented, the tracking issue will be closed and given
the label "RFC: Complete".

### RFC Postponement
[RFC Postponement]: #rfc-postponement

Some RFC pull requests are tagged with the "RFC: Postponed" label when they are
closed (as part of the rejection process). An RFC closed with "RFC: Postponed" is
marked as such because we want neither to think about evaluating the proposal
nor about implementing the described feature until some time in the future, and
we believe that we can afford to wait until then to do so. Postponed pull
requests may be re-opened when the time is right. We don't have any formal
process for that, you should ask members of the relevant sub-team.

Usually an RFC pull request marked as "RFC: Postponed" has already passed an
informal first round of evaluation, namely the round of "do we think we would
ever possibly consider making this change, as outlined in the RFC pull request,
or some semi-obvious variation of it." (When the answer to the latter question
is "no", then the appropriate response is to close the RFC, not postpone it.)

> ### Help! This is all too informal

Reviewer 8: I never really liked this section in the rust-lang RFC process.  It's excessively formal in my opinion.  That doesn't mean it's bad, but there is a lot more ceremony involved in this process compared to what we've done previously.

Author: @Xaeroxe Do you think it should be removed entirely? Or do you have a rewording in mind?

Reviewer 8: I'd remove it entirely personally

Author: Are you ok with leaving it in for this round, and we can do another round to focus on that section after it is merged? I feel like removing an entire section would require another full round of approvals...

Reviewer 8: Sure

## License
[License]: #license

> With the exception of amethyst/website, all repositories under the amethyst/ organization are Apache 2.0 or MIT licensed. Amethyst/website is licensed under the CC BY-SA 4.0 license.

Reviewer: I don't really think that's the best way to go. Why do you want to say that in the first place?

Author: Because it was in the Rust RFC README, from which I shamelessly ripped this off. Why don't you think this is the best way to go?

Reviewer: Because if we add new repos that have exotic licences, we would have to maintain this arbitrary list as well.

Author: Should we be adding new repos that have exotic licenses without discussion? That's generally considered to be a bad idea, as it can taint the entire project. Choosing to allow additional licenses should be a Big Deal, imo. There's even repo scanners to look for toxic licenses hidden in projects.

I'm ok with removing this, but I'd like @torkleyy and @LucioFranco to weigh in. An explicit statement about what licenses we use in some fashion is, I think, a good thing.

Reviewer 6: I want to keep everything consistent so I am for keeping this.

Author: @amethyst/core @TimonPost @magnonellie anyone else want to weigh in?

Reviewer 5: I personally think that it's pretty bad that the website is licensed under CC as none of the CC licenses are really meant for code. I think that we should relicense it to Apache 2.0 or MIT for **code** and then CC BY for all **assets** which I think would be a pretty good pattern to keep throughout all our projects. The difference between us and Rust is that we are, to some extent, dealing with assets and possibly even work that we don't own the rights for. Maybe changing the text to something like this could work:

```suggestion
All code in repositories under the amethyst/ organization is Apache 2.0 or MIT licensed while all assets are Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 licensed if not otherwise stated.
```

 I chose CC BY instead of BY SA because SA would prevent people from making a commercial game that has our logo in the splash screen for example :sweat_smile:

Reviewer: Okay I think that's pretty good. Note that the current logo is CC BY SA licensed by ebkalderon I believe. I don't think it matters much however.
